hello guys what are you like today
esquire trafic I come to talk about the
nintendo playstation of the project
super nintendo playstation and no no of the
poli station that is a pretty fake
bad that they sell in the Chinese like you
I said in the previous documentary video
try to compete almost exclusively with
It will be on the market consoles
desktop to early 90s is already
he had taken out his peripheral cd for his
16 bit console therefore nintendo
I could not stay behind
james bond
we travel back to the year 1991 according to
wikipedia in this year the following happened
on June 23 is published the
video game sonic the hedgehog starring
for this character that will become
sega mascot on August 13 goes out to
the super nintendo sale in america in
October goes on sale the first
copy of hobby consoles and the 12th
December is launched for the first time in
Japan the peripheral will be gives me cd
those from nintendo were starting to
realize that the CD offered a
format that was cheaper and had more
cartridge capacity better
soundtracks and a lot cinematic
richest they definitely offered the same
that pc games something that up
now the cartridges could not give the
user
in that year 1991 in the consumer
electronics show that it was like the e3 of
the nintendo era claimed that it was
working with sony to get ahead
your console project grant the
nintendo playstation project
curiously the day after having
announced this they broke the agreement
they left everyone wondering with
this decision and not only that but
it also seemed that the
idea of ​​being able to use cds with your super
nintendo like in these two designs that
you see on the screen the gossips say
that the contract was too favorable
for sony and even abusive for it the
president of nintendo
hiroshi yamauchi shelved the
issue in the blink of an eye as well
nintendo did not want a cedé any
I wanted a super cd with a chip
Built-in to save items somewhat
that apart from not being pirateable to sony
he did not like anything since there was
affirmed that a possible videoconsole of
sony had compatibility with the super
nintendo cd and this prevented him from
measured while also saving a
ace up your sleeve or an agreement with philips
for which he was sued by sonny and
which we will talk about later
in 1993 the agreements are resumed
to create that nintendo ce of the three
companies to carry out this were
are and I had already worked with
nintendo and philips of which we had
spoken before the plan was to present
super nintendo cd in 1993 until then
would work on the project for nintendo
in exchange for being able to improve it and sell it
subsequently using even the
licenses of some of the games
nintendo in the end everyone won
money with this cake had already been
announced its technical specifications
as you can see them on the screen and
even its price that would be around 200
Dollars
but now let's talk about philips and
of the disastrous career he did in the
world of phillips game consoles
took advantage of those agreements with nintendo
to get the cd and a market
product that was pretty bad not only
for its price more than 400 dollars but
for the low quality of their video games
thanks to your agreement with nintendo
they were able to market these
video games or telmario a game of upload
levels through some super doors
mario world that never came to nail
and that it had a design similar to the super
mario world and three cell video games
first cell link the face of
softball cell of one of fame long and
cells adventure both the cells and
the marios were lousy games we're going to
see a small gameplay that proves it
yes
i
Y
all right
for me
It must be said that Phillips lost more than
a trillion with b dollars with this
video game console you have to also say how
it is obvious that this project super clean
12 of failure and that thanks to it
we have today in the market the
playstation and all the sony hits
philips learned the lesson and luckily
He did not return another video console with
the one that torment us without saying goodbye
guys, I hope you liked it so much
the video like to give it a like us
we see in the next documentary and if still
you are not subscribed to do it already and so we
you will lose it until later